# Node.js express.js MySQL REST API - Basic Project Skeleton

## Getting started

This is a basic API REST skeleton written on JavaScript using async/await. Great for building a starter web API for your front-end

This project is created to help other developers create a **basic REST API in an easy way with Node.js**. This basic example shows how powerful and simple JavaScript can be. Do you want to contribute? Pull requests are always welcome to show more features.

## Features

- Multiple environment ready (development, production)
- Compressed responses.
- Secured HTTP headers.
- CORS ready.
- HTTP request logger in development mode.
- i18n ready.
- Login access log with IP, browser and country location (for country it looks for the header `cf-ipcountry` that CloudFlare creates when protecting your website).
- API autogenerated documentation by Postman.
- Testing with mocha/chai for API endpoints.
- NPM script for keeping good source code formatting using prettier and ESLint. (AirBnb Style Guide)
- Use of ESLint for good coding practices.
- Ability to refresh token
- JWT Tokens, make requests with a token after login with `Authorization` header with value `Bearer yourToken` where `yourToken` is the **signed and encrypted token** given in the response from the login process.

## Requirements

- Node.js **10+**

## How to install

### Using Git (recommended)

1.  Clone the project from github. Change "myproject" to your project name.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/19jake68/node-express-mysql-rest-api-skeleton.git ./myproject
```

### Using manual download ZIP

1.  Download repository
2.  Uncompress to your desired directory

### Install npm dependencies after installing (Git or manual download)

```bash
cd myproject
npm install
npm update
```

### Setting up environments (development or production)

1.  In the root this repository you will find a file named `.env.example`
2.  Create a new file by copying and pasting the file and then renaming it to just `.env`
3.  The file `.env` is already ignored, so you never commit your credentials.
4.  Change the values of the file to your environment (development or production)
5.  Upload the `.env` to your environment server(development or production)
6.  If you use the postman collection to try the endpoints, change value of the variable `server` on your environment to the url of your server, for development mode use <http://localhost:3000>

### i18n

Language is automatically detected from `Accept-Language` header on the request. So either you send locale manually on the request or your browser will send its default, if `Accept-Language` header is not sent then it will use `en` locale as default.

## How to run

### Running in development mode (lifting API server)

```bash
npm run dev
```

You will know server is running by checking the output of the command `npm run dev`

```bash
****************************
*    Starting Server
*    Port: 3000
*    APP_ENV: development
*    Database: MySQL
*    DB Connection: OK
****************************
```

### Running tests

It´s a good practice to do tests at your code, so a sample of how to do that in `mocha/chai` is also included in the `/test` directory

```bash
npm run test
```

### Formatting code

Format your code with prettier by typing:

```bash
npm run format
```

### Formatting markdown files

Format all your markdown files with remark by typing:

```bash
npm run remark
```

### Linting code

Lint your code with ESLint by typing:

```bash
npm run lint
```

### Creating new models

If you need to add more models to the project just create a new file in `/app/models/` and it will be loaded dynamically.

### Creating new routes

If you need to add more routes to the project just create a new file in `/app/routes/` and it will be loaded dynamically.

### Creating new controllers

When you create a new controller file, try to also create another file with validations. Ex. `countries.js` and `countries.validate.js`. An example of this is included in the repository.

## Bugs or improvements

Feel free to report any bugs or improvements. Pull requests are always welcome.

## License

This project is open-sourced software licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more information.
